.TH WBMS GEOREF 1

.SH NAME
wbms_georef \- Georeferencer for sonar data and lidar data


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wbms_georef 
[ \fIoptions\fR ]
.P


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwbms_georef\fR  is a command line georeferencer primarily designed for Norbit WBMS sonar data.   
It combines position and attitude data from a navigation system, with sensor data from sonar or lidar, and generates a georeferenced point cloud.
Supports ray tracing of sonar data if speed-of-sound profile file is provided.
Output is either CSV files or CloudCompare .sbf (simple binary format)


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-c " "file"
Read configuration file from specified location

.TP
.BI "-x "
Generate a template config file with default values (wbms_georef.conf.template)

.TP
.BI "-i " "common_data"
Filename for file containing sensor and navigation data. Typically s7k. 

.TP
.BI "-s " "sensor_data"
Filename for file containing sensor data. Sonar in raw WBMS format or s7k. Lidar in raw Velodyne format.

.TP
.BI "-p " "navigation_data"
Filename for file containing navigation data. Raw Applanix PosMV, s7k and some other CSV-formats supported.

.TP
.BI "-S " "n"
Sensor data format. 1=WBMS 2=WBMS_V5 3=Velodyne 5=S7K
If none is given here or in config file, wbms_georef will try to auto detect.

.TP
.BI "-P " "n"
Navigation data format. 0=POSMV 1=XTF_NAV 2=WBM_TOOL 3=SBET 4=SIM 5=S7K
If none is given here or in config file, wbms_georef will try to auto detect.

.TP
.BI "-w " "sv_data"
Filename for file containing sound velocity profile.
Data should be comma separated with sound velocity in [m/s] and depth in [m], one measurement per line.

.TP
.BI "-o " "outputfile"
Filename prefix of output file.
If outputting to CSV, outputfile.csv will be generated.
If outputting to SBF, outputfile.sbf and outputfile.sbf.data will be generated.


.SH EXAMPLES
Generate template config file.
.RS
.P
wbms_georef -x
.RE
.P

Edit and rename this file to you preferences.
.RS
.P
mv wbms_georef.conf.template wbms_georef.conf
vim wbms_georef.conf
.RE
.P

Then run wbms_georef with your data files.
.RS
.P
wbms_georef -s surveyline_X.wbms -p surveyline_X.posmv -w sv_cast.csv -o surveyline_X
.RE
.P


Generate and use intensity compensation table

STEP 1  Process with range compensation to CSV (NO AOI COMP),
- generate file:  datafile_intensity_comp.csv

  wbms_georef.conf content:
    # Uncomment to compensate intensity for range
    intensity_range_comp
    # Damping / attenuation in dB/km one-way when applying intensity range comp
    intensity_range_attenuation  100
    # Uncomment to compensate intensity for AOI
    # AOI compensation is either by model or from angle/intensity CSV file if given with -y option
    #intensity_aoi_comp
    # Uncomment to calculate aoi from data, otherwise assume flat seafloor
    #calc_aoi
    # Uncomment to output in CSV format
    csv_output
    output_format teta,range,aoi,val


STEP 2   Use process_x_y_csv.py, to generate a table of mean grouped intensities (here 40 groups)
- generate file:  stats_datafile_intensity_comp.csv

    ~/git/wbms-command-line-processing-tools/python/process_x_y_csv.py -G -x 0 -y 3 datafile_intensity_comp.csv -o -n 40



STEP 3 Reprocess data with the generated statistics file
- generate_file: datafile_full_comp.sbf

  wbms_georef.conf content:
    # Uncomment to compensate intensity for range
    intensity_range_comp
    # Damping / attenuation in dB/km one-way when applying intensity range comp
    intensity_range_attenuation  100
    # Uncomment to compensate intensity for AOI
    # AOI compensation is either by model or from angle/intensity CSV file if given with -y option
    intensity_aoi_comp
    # Uncomment to calculate aoi from data, otherwise assume flat seafloor
    #calc_aoi

    Run with argument -y stats_datafile_intensity_comp.csv


.SH SEE ALSO

